Dearest Family,
Merry Christmas! I love you all.  I hope you like the little game I've made for you. It's a knock off of tetris. It took me about a day to build the game, then about two weeks to hunt down the images and build out your own personal theme.

Getting started:
Your game is stored on a thumb drive. While the thumbdrive is connected to  your computer, copy and paste the 'Tetris custom' folder somewhere on your computer. ('Documents' or 'My Documents' would be my recomendation). Open the Tetris Custom folder stored on your computer and right click on the 'tetris.html' icon. (its going to have the same icon as your default browser ie.. chrome, internet explorer)  You should see 'send to' in the list of options. (If not, choose 'show more options').  Hover over 'send to' and you should see a list of options. Click on 'Desktop(create shortcut)'. This will put a shortcut on your desktop that you can click on to open the game.  

Game play :
The tetris game pieces fall down the gameboard until they reach the bottom where they stick. You can rotate the pieces or move them left or right by clicking on the buttons on the right of the screen. Or you can use the arrow keys on  your keyboard (the up arrow is rotate). 
You can pause the game with the pause button (pro tip: you can still move the piece when the game is paused). If the piece is too close to the side it will not rotate. Some of your themes have an image covering the game piece. When it sticks to the bottom the image disappears and the shape is it's original color. This is to make it easier to place new shapes. When the entire row is filled it will disappear and you will score points. You get extra points for clearing more than one row at time. If the pieces stack up to the top of the gameboard an theres not enough room for the next piece to fall the game is over.

Themes: 
You may play on any theme that you wish. If you'd like to customize a theme, (I highly encourage you to do so). Here are the instructions.
1.Make a copy of the tetris custom folder. This will serve as a backup. Do not edit anything in the copied folder. 
2. inside the 'tetris custom' folder you will see 5 files and two folders. Lets focus on these three files.
	files: 
	1. tetris.css
	2. tetris.html
	3. tetris.js
	4. shapes.js
	5. profiles.js

tetris.html is the file that displays in your web browser. It is written in HTML5. HTML5 is a tag language. The tags describe the page to the browser. Usually there is an opening and closing tag for example; notice that the second tag is an opening <html> and if you scroll all the way to the bottom you will see a closing </html>. Closing tags have '/' in them. The <!DOCTYPE html> is a special tag that doesn't have a closing tag. You will not need to edit this file to change the theme (the colors or images.) Only if you want to change the structure of the page. To learn more about HTML here is a link to a website that will teach you step by step. 
https://www.w3schools.com/html/

tetris.css - css is a type of language that tells the web browser how the HTML elements or tags are to be displayed. It determines the positioning of elements on the page, colors, fonts,sizes and much more. You will not need to edit this file to change your theme. For more information about css look here: https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp

tetris.js, shapes.js, profiles.js - These are javascript files. JavaScript is a language that is used to give the page functionality. In general HTML describes the structure of the page, CSS describes the look of the page and JavaScript describes what the page does. These three files work together to create your tetris game. HTML files, CSS files and JS files are used together to make many other webpages. To change your theme you will need to edit the profiles.js file and one other. For a javascipt tutorial go here : https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp

	folders:
	1.images
	2.themes
	
 'images' is a folder that contains all the images that the webpage needs to function. 
 'themes' contains several files. You will need to find the file with your name (or the name of the theme you wish to edit) and edit it. 
 
 
 To edit the theme colors:
 Inside the 'themes' folder find the name of the theme you wish to edit. (do not edit the default). Open the file in a text editor. At the top inside the .root you will see 6 lines of code all begin with two dashes (--) and have the word color in them. (For example : -- text-color: white;) In this case you can just change the color to the one you wish in our example if you wanted the text to be blue you would just change white to blue like this : --text-color: blue;  and save the file. To see the change,  open (or reload) your tetris game and observe what changed. If it is the --gamebg-color that you want to change it's a little more complicated. This is because the color is partially transparent. In order to change it you would need to change the numbers inside the parentheses. For example in mom.css it is set to 'rgba(17,61,156,0.5)'. The rgba stands for Red Green Blue Alpha. The first number 17 sets the red, the second number 61 sets the green and the third number 156 sets the blue. So this color is mostly blue. The last number 0.5 sets the Alpha. The Alpha (or transparency) is either 1 meaning non transparent or a fraction. So in this example it is halfway (50%) transparent. You can arbitrarily adjust the numbers to adjust the colors but I would recommend using a color picker like the one at this website. https://www.w3schools.com/colors/colors_picker.asp . Just click on a color and below it will tell you what the first three numbers should be to get that color. Update the numbers between the commas to change it. Then save. Open or reload the tetris game to observe the change. Just note that not all browsers show the colors exactly the same and the transparency is going to change it a bit. If the color is rgb instead of rgba this just means it has no transparency(alpha) and is a solid color but other than that it works exactly the same. 
 
 To edit the images:
 You can take two approaches to changing the images. 
 1.First approach: you can save an image to the 'images' folder with the same name and type as the file that's already there. The program retrieves these images from the 'images' folder and inserts them to the page. So if there is an image with the same name (including the extension type ) the application will insert it into the page. When you do this windows is going give you an alert saying something like "this file already exists in this folder, what do you want to do?" Choose to over write the file. If you do not get this prompt it might save it with a slightly different name. Just rename it. Or sometimes if it saves the file without the prompt this means that your image is in a different format than the one saved and it won't work. You will have to convert it to the image format of the existing image for it to display on the webpage. (all of the images are in PNG (.png) or JPEG (.jpg) format). 
 2. Second approach: You will still need to save the image to the 'images' folder. Then open profiles.js in a text editor.  You will see what is called a method or function named 'function setTheme(e){' under that, there is a switch statement 'switch(player){' you should notice that there are multple lines that start with 'case' in the parenthese you'll see names (except for Jayne, where I named it mom). Find the case or theme images you want to change. The 'case' order is the same as in the tetris game. You will see that each 'case' has 6 lines between them. The first line tells the program which css file to use for the colors of the theme.  The second, third and fourth lines represents the images. If you want to change the background images or the small side images you will need to update the last part of the URI of the image in the statement. 
 for example in the "mom" theme the line: 
 document.body.style.backgroundImage = "url('./images/fairybg.jpg')";
 tells the application to insert the fairybg.jpg into the background of the page. If you wanted to change it, you would save an image (using file named newImage.jpg as an example) into the images folder and then change the fairybg.jpg part of the line to the name of the new image in the folder like this: 
 document.body.style.backgroundImage = "url('./images/newImage.jpg')";
 
 For the small side images imgA is the one on the left and imgB is the one on the right. It is basically the same process. You would just change the file name after the last '/' in the URL so that 
document.getElementById('imgA').src = "./images/unicorn-hzt.png";
becomes : 
document.getElementById('imgA').src = "./images/newImage.png"; 

Changing the icons:
 (the tiny images that are falling in the game). This is a little trickier. 
 NO ICON : If you don't want to see an overlaying image on the game pieces just change the number in this line 'icon.src= ICONS[x];' to 9. Like this icon.src=ICONS[9];. 
 
 DIFFERENT ICON: If you want to change it and the first approach doesn't work or is not an option then you will want to change the uri for the image but it is NOT located in the 'function setTheme(e){' section of the JavaScript file. To change it. Take note of the number in the brackets. At the top of the page you will see something called 'const ICONS = [' the next lines are all URIs. For example you should see the top URI "./images/ballOfYarnIcon.jpg", to change the ballOfYarnIcon.jpg to something else you would replace the 'ballOfYarnIcon.jpg' to whatever you choose to name your file in the 'images' folder when you saved it. If you named it 'potatoes.png' the new URI would be "./images/potatoes.png", 
 These files are in what's called an Array. and they are accessed by index. Meaning they are automatically numbered starting with 0. The first file is 0. So the number you took note of earlier is the going to be the number in the ICONS array. For example if the line was icon.src= ICONS[5]; in themes the uri you want to change would be the 6th one down. 